---
layout: post
title: "Netbeans Error: Rails requires RubyGems >= 1.3.1"
tags:
- rails
- netbeans
- jruby
- gem
---

I have been working with "Netbeans":http://netbeans.org on a daily basis for a while and every time I load it up I get an annoying "Rails requires RubyGems &gt;= 1.3.1 (you have 1.2.0). Please `gem update --system` and try again." message.

Since I'm using it just as an editor, not making use of its embeded Rails environment, I ignored it for a while but today I decided to face the problem and solve it definitely.

If you already tried to run "gem update --system" in your Netbeans JRuby folder you know it just says there's nothing to update and the errror message persists. After some research on the web I discovered the rubygems-update gem.

To make use of it, just go to your JRuby folder (usually C:\Program Files\Netbeans 6.5.1\ruby2\jruby\bin\jruby) and type the following commands as follows.

First of all check if you find the home of the problem with the following command which should give you "1.2.0" back.

{% highlight bash %}
mhfs@vm $ jruby gem --version
{% endhighlight %}

Now type these two commands for the update process to work:

{% highlight bash %}
mhfs@vm $ jruby gem install rubygems-update
mhfs@vm $ jruby update_rubygems
{% endhighlight %}

And check the version again to be sure you got to 1.3.X.

That should be enough. The message will be gone. If any of you have any problem drop a comment and I'll try to help.

Update: There seams to be a way to install a newer version of JRuby by downloading it (http://jruby.codehaus.org/:http://jruby.codehaus.org/) and expanding into your "C:\Program Files\Netbeans 6.5.1\ruby2\" folder. Then all you have to do is adding a new Ruby Platform in your Netbeans project properties. Please notice that a new JRuby install means you'll have to reinstall your gems (if you installed new ones since you first installed Netbeans).

Cheers!